Security hardening guide for scheduler configuration (#45080)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/security/hardening-guide/scheduler.md

---
title: "Hardening Guide - Scheduler Configuration"
description: >
    Information about how to make the Kubernetes scheduler more secure.
content_type: concept
draft: false
weight: 90
---

<!-- overview -->

> [kube-scheduler](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-scheduler) is one of the critical components of the control plane. Generally, it the of the top consideration for the security of the Control Plane. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes {{< glossary_tooltip text="scheduler" term_id="kube-scheduler" >}} is
one of the critical components of the
{{< glossary_tooltip text="control plane" term_id="control-plane" >}}.
```

- The API server is an even juicier target; if you can co-opt that, you can do everything that someone taking over the scheduler is able to do.
- The original text wasn't good English.
- Also, please use tooltips.

> In this document we explain the effects of a misconfigured scheduler and how we can make the scheduler more secure.

Reviewer: (nit)
[Avoid using “we”](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#avoid-using-we).

A misconfigured Scheduler can have security implications. Such a scheduler can target specific nodes and evict the services sharing the node. This can aid an attacker with a [Yo-Yo attack](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.00542) which is an attack on a vulnerable autoscaler.

<!-- body -->
## kube-scheduler configurations

### Scheduler Authentication & Authorization configuration options
{{<table caption="Authentication and Authorization Configurations">}}
| Configuration | Description | Security Hardening Advice |
| --- | :--- | --- |

> |`authentication-kubeconfig`|kubeconfig file pointing at the 'core' kubernetes server with enough rights to create tokenreviews.authentication.k8s.io. This is optional. If empty, all token requests are considered to be anonymous and no client CA is looked up in the cluster. |Make sure that a proper to provide a proper kubeconfig so that the server calls are secure. This kubeconfig file should also maintained securely.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`authentication-kubeconfig`|kubeconfig file pointing at the 'core' kubernetes server with enough rights to create tokenreviews.authentication.k8s.io. This is optional. If empty, all token requests are considered to be anonymous and no client CA is looked up in the cluster. |Make sure to provide a proper kubeconfig so that the server calls are secure. This kubeconfig file should also maintained securely.|
```

|`authentication-tolerate-lookup-failure`| If true, failures to look up missing authentication configuration from the cluster are not considered fatal. Note that this can result in authentication that treats all requests as anonymous. |Set to `false` to make sure invalid authentication configurations do not lead to requests passing off as anonymous |

> |`authentication-skip-lookup`| If false, the authentication-kubeconfig will be used to lookup missing authentication configuration from the cluster. |This should be set to `false` to make sure all missing authentication configuration falls back to the authentication kubeconfig.|

Reviewer 2: Consider switching this statement to start with "If true" to improve consistency with the rest of the document

> |`authorization-always-allow-paths`| A list of HTTP paths to skip during authorization, i.e. these are authorized without contacting the 'core' kubernetes server. |These paths should respond with data that is appropriate for anonymous authorization. Defaults to `"/healthz,/readyz,/livez"`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`authorization-always-allow-paths`| A list of HTTP paths to skip during authorization, i.e. these are authorized without contacting the 'core' kubernetes server. |These paths should respond with data that is appropriate for anonymous authorization. Defaults to `/healthz,/readyz,/livez`.|
```

{{</table>}}

### Address configuration options
{{<table caption="Address Configurations">}}
| Configuration | Description | Security Hardening Advice |
| --- | --- | --- |

> |`bind-address`| The IP address on which to listen for the --secure-port port. The associated interface(s) must be reachable by the rest of the cluster, and by CLI/web clients. If blank or an unspecified address (0.0.0.0 or ::), all interfaces and IP address families will be used. |In most cases, kube-scheduler does not need to be externally accessible. Setting the bind address to `localhost` is a secure practice.|

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
|`bind-address`| The IP address on which to listen for the `--secure-port` port (mainly used for metrics and health checks). The associated interface(s) must be reachable by the rest of the cluster, and by CLI/web clients. If blank or an unspecified address (`0.0.0.0` for IPv4 or `::` for IPv6), all interfaces and IP address families will be used. |In most cases, the kube-scheduler does not need to be externally accessible. Setting the bind address to `localhost` is a secure practice.|
```

No need to repeat the built-in documentation verbatim IMO.

> |`bind-address`| The IP address on which to listen for the --secure-port port. The associated interface(s) must be reachable by the rest of the cluster, and by CLI/web clients. If blank or an unspecified address (0.0.0.0 or ::), all interfaces and IP address families will be used. |In most cases, kube-scheduler does not need to be externally accessible. Setting the bind address to `localhost` is a secure practice.|

Reviewer 3: so for `bind-address` if we're saying that it should be set to localhost (which makes sense, I think) we could drop the wording "must be reachable by the rest of the cluster" as that kind of contradicts what's being said (if I'm reading this right.

Reviewer: > Do you think this should also be updated in the kube-scheduler documentation?

Yes, but we shouldn't wait for that to happen before merging this PR. It's OK for the documentation to be more informative than the command's built-in help.

> |`permit-address-sharing`|If true, SO_REUSEADDR will be used when binding the port. This allows binding to wildcard IPs like 0.0.0.0 and specific IPs in parallel, and it avoids waiting for the kernel to release sockets in TIME_WAIT state.|Default `false`. Setting it to  `true` will enable connection sharing through `SO_REUSEADDR`. Caution: `SO_REUSEADDR` can reuse terminated connections and are in `TIME_WAIT` state.|

Reviewer 2: I think this recommendation does not clearly state whether to use `true` or `false`. It seems to go back and forth as you mention the default, "setting to `true` will enable...", and a "Caution" when using `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`permit-address-sharing` | If true, the kube-scheduler uses the `SO_REUSEADDR` socket option when binding its listening port, which allows more than one kube-scheduler process to bind on the same address and port. This allows binding to wildcard IP addresses (such as 0.0.0.0), or binding to specific IP addresess in parallel, and it avoids waiting for the kernel to release sockets in `TIME_WAIT` state.|Default `false`. Setting it to  `true` will enable connection sharing through `SO_REUSEADDR`. Caution: `SO_REUSEADDR` can lead to reuse of terminated connections that are in `TIME_WAIT` state.|
```

Reviewer 3: +1 on @bijou-code 's comment. If we're going to include the parameter it should be to make a clear recommendation (otherwise we can leave it out)

> |`permit-port-sharing`|If true, SO_REUSEPORT will be used when binding the port, which allows more than one instance to bind on the same address and port.|Default `false`. Should be only enabled after careful deliberation and with `permit-address-sharing`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`permit-port-sharing`|If true, the kube-scheduler uses the `SO_REUSEPORT` socket option when binding its listening port, which allows more than one kube-scheduler process to bind on the same address and port.|Default `false`. Use the default unless you are confident you understand the security implications.|
```
No need for careful deliberation IMO.

{{</table>}}

### TLS configuration options
{{<table caption="Address Configurations">}}
| Configuration | Description | Security Hardening Advice |
| --- | --- | --- |

> |`requestheader-client-ca-file`|Root certificate bundle to use to verify client certificates on incoming requests before trusting usernames in headers specified by --requestheader-username-headers. WARNING: generally do not depend on authorization being already done for incoming requests.|Always provide the root certificate bundle. This allows authorization to happen on each incoming request through `requestheader-allowed-names`.|

Reviewer 2: It might be worth moving this "WARNING" into the hardening advice

|`tls-cipher-suites strings`|Comma-separated list of cipher suites for the server. If omitted, the default Go cipher suites will be used.|Always provide a list of preferred cipher suites. This ensures encryption never happens with insecure cipher suites.|
{{</table>}}

## Scheduling configurations

> The cluster administrator needs be careful with the plugins that use the [queueSort, filter, and permit extension points](/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#extension-points). Scheduling happens in a series of stages that are exposed through the extension points. Plugins that define their own extension points can be enabled. This can affect the defined scheduling process of the kube-scheduler of the cluster.

Reviewer: The cluster administrator needs be careful with the plugins that use the `queueSort`, `filter`,
or `permit` [extension points](/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#extension-points).
Scheduling happens in a series of stages that are exposed through the extension points.
As a cluster administrator, you can enable plugins that define their own extension points.
Doing so can affect the defined scheduling behaviors of the kube-scheduler in your cluster.
```

> Exactly one plugin that uses the `queueSort` extension point can be enabled at a time. Any other plugins that use `queueSort` should be scrutinized.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Exactly one plugin that uses the `queueSort` extension point can be enabled at a time. Any plugins that use `queueSort` should be scrutinized.
```

> Plugins that implement the `filter` extension point can potentially mark all nodes as unschedulable. This can bring scheduling of new pods to a halt.

Reviewer 2: May be worth including a recommendation

Author: Added more details and recommendation following the description.

---
title: "Hardening Guide - Scheduler Configuration"
description: >
    Information about how to make the Kubernetes scheduler more secure.
content_type: concept

> draft: false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We rarely mark pages as not draft; it's implied.

weight: 90
---

<!-- overview -->
The Kubernetes {{< glossary_tooltip text="scheduler" term_id="kube-scheduler" >}} is
one of the critical components of the
{{< glossary_tooltip text="control plane" term_id="control-plane" >}}.

This document covers how to improve the security posture of the Schduler.

> A misconfigured Scheduler can have security implications. Such a scheduler can target specific nodes and evict the services sharing the node. This can aid an attacker with a [Yo-Yo attack](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.00542) which is an attack on a vulnerable autoscaler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A misconfigured scheduler can have security implications. Such a scheduler can target specific nodes
and evict the workloads or applications that are sharing the node and its resources. This can aid an
attacker with a [Yo-Yo attack](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.00542): an attack on a vulnerable autoscaler.
```

Doing so can affect the defined scheduling behaviors of the kube-scheduler in your cluster.

### Extension points

Exactly one plugin that uses the `queueSort` extension point can be enabled at a time. Any plugins that use `queueSort` should be scrutinized.

Plugins that implement the `filter` extension point can potentially mark all nodes as unschedulable. This can bring scheduling of new pods to a halt.

Plugins that implement the `permit` extension point  can prevent or delay the binding of a Pod. Such plugins should be thoroughly reviewed by the cluster administrator.

When using a plugin that is not one of the [default plugins](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#scheduling-plugins), consider disabling the `queueSort`, `filter` and `permit` extension points as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubescheduler.config.k8s.io/v1
kind: KubeSchedulerConfiguration
profiles:
  - schedulerName: default-scheduler
  - schedulerName: my-custom-scheduler
    plugins:
      queueSort:
        disabled:
        - name: '*'
      filter:
        disabled:
        - name: '*'
      permit:
        disabled:
        - name: '*'
```

> This creates 2 scheduler profiles `default-scheduler` and ` my-custom-scheduler`. Whenever a podSpec does not have `.spec.schedulerName`, the kube-apiserver will use default plugin. The other option for pods would be to use `my-custom-scheduler` which has `queueSort`, `filter` and `permit` extension points disabled.

Author: @raesene @sftim, does this look good for this hardening guide?

Reviewer: 1. Considering our style guide, I recommend:
   ```suggestion
   This creates two scheduler profiles: `default-scheduler` and ` my-custom-scheduler`.
   Whenever the `.spec` of a Pod does not have a value for `.spec.schedulerName`,
   the kube-scheduler runs for that Pod, using its main configuration, and default plugin.
   If you define a Pod with `.spec.schedulerName` set to `my-custom-scheduler`, the
   kube-scheduler also runs but with a custom configuration; in that custom configuration,
   the  `queueSort`, `filter` and `permit` extension points are disabled.
   
   If you use this kube-scheduler configuration, and don't run any custom scheduler, and
   you then define a Pod with  `.spec.schedulerName` set to `nonexistent-scheduler` (or
   any other scheduler name that doesn't exist in your cluster), then the Pod stays pending
   scheduling. You would see a `FailedScheduling` event for the Pod and could manually
   remove that Pod using `kubectl delete`.
   ```
2. I am not convinced this is the right page for that advice. I think this belongs in a page about scheduling, and the hardening guide should hyperlink there.

Author: I added the this configuration here to explain how to disable `queueSort`, `filter` and `permit` extensions based on the previous feedback. We can move it to scheduler configuration but this specifically seems liked a security hardening direction. If we were to move this to a page about scheduling then it would need to cover scheduling guidelines with even more details.

Author: In this section I'm trying to explain how to harden scheduler scheduler security when working with custom schedulers and extension points.

Reviewer: OK. So, I suggest the heading:
```dff
-### Extension points
### Scheduler security for custom schedulers
```

Does this cover:
- your own scheduler code
- a custom scheduler using a mix of Kubernetes code and your own code
- plain kube-scheduler, customized only through configuration files

Folks reading this need to be able to work out which of those scenarios we might (might be all, might be a subset). I can't tell, so I think other readers will also not be certain.

Author: Oh I see what you mean. I'll update this section to be more descriptive 👍

- Plugins that implement the `permit` extension point  can prevent or delay the binding of a Pod. Such plugins should be thoroughly reviewed by the cluster administrator.

When using a plugin that is not one of the [default plugins](/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#scheduling-plugins), consider disabling the `queueSort`, `filter` and `permit` extension points as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubescheduler.config.k8s.io/v1
kind: KubeSchedulerConfiguration
profiles:
  - schedulerName: default-scheduler
  - schedulerName: my-custom-scheduler
    plugins:
      queueSort:
        disabled:
        # Globally only one queueSort can be specified.
        - name: my-custom-scheduler
      # - name: default-scheduler
      permit:
        disabled:
        - name: '*'
```
This creates two scheduler profiles: `default-scheduler` and ` my-custom-scheduler`.
Whenever the `.spec` of a Pod does not have a value for `.spec.schedulerName`, the kube-scheduler runs for that Pod, using its main configuration, and default plugins.
If you define a Pod with `.spec.schedulerName` set to `my-custom-scheduler`, the kube-scheduler also runs but with a custom configuration; in that custom configuration,

> the  `queueSort`, `filter` and `permit` extension points are disabled.

Reviewer 4: What in that configuration disables the `filter` extension point? Is it bundled in somehow with either `queueSort` or `permit`?

Author: Good catch. I missed that. Let me update the `KubeSchedulerConfiguration` block and add more details.

Author: Updated the `KubeSchedulerConfiguration` which should address this. 👍

- `profiling`: Set to `false` to disable the profiling endpoints which are provide debugging information but which should not be enabled on production clusters as they present a risk of denial of service or information leakage. The `--profiling` argument is deprecated and can now be provided through the [KubeScheduler DebuggingConfiguration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/config-api/kube-scheduler-config.v1/#DebuggingConfiguration). Profiling can be disabled through the kube-scheduler config by setting `enableProfiling` to `false`.                                                                                     

### Scheduler networking command line options

- `bind-address`: In most cases, the kube-scheduler does not need to be externally accessible. Setting the bind address to `localhost` is a secure practice.
- `permit-address-sharing`: Set this to `false` to  disable connection sharing through `SO_REUSEADDR`. `SO_REUSEADDR` can lead to reuse of terminated connections that are in `TIME_WAIT` state.
- `permit-port-sharing`: Default `false`. Use the default unless you are confident you understand the security implications.

### Scheduler TLS command line options

> - `requestheader-client-ca-file`: Avoid passing this argument and instead rely on `requestheader-allowed-names` instead. [This configuration makes sure that authentication configuration consistent across the cluster.](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/configure-aggregation-layer/#original-request-username-and-group)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `requestheader-client-ca-file`: Avoid passing this argument.
- `requestheader-allowed-names`: Avoid passing this argument. Omitting these arguments will ensure the scheduler uses the configuration it looks up from the apiserver. [This configuration makes sure that authentication configuration consistent across the cluster.](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/configure-aggregation-layer/#original-request-username-and-group)
```

Reviewer 4: Let's list both of these separately so that it's clear each of them are best left alone, together with the `authentication-*` options to ensure the scheduler looks up their values from the apiserver.

Author: Moved this under `Scheduler authentication & authorization command line options` 👍

## Scheduling configurations for custom schedulers

> This section covers security hardening when using custom schedulers based on the Kubernetes
> scheduling code.
> The cluster administrator needs be careful with the plugins that use the `queueSort`, `prefilter`, `filter`, or permit [extension points](https://github.com/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#extension-points).
> Scheduling happens in a series of stages that are exposed through the extension points.
> As a cluster administrator, you can enable plugins that define their own extension points.
> Doing so can affect the defined scheduling behaviors of the kube-scheduler in your cluster.
> 
> When using a custom scheduler, plugin extension points such as `queueSort`, `prefilter`, `filter` and `permit` should be used with care.

Reviewer 5: Don't you think the sentence warning administrators about plugin extension points is repetitive?

I make the paragraph clear, as it feels confusing.

Also, the referenced URL is invalid, it raises a 404 error. I also changed it to the live webpage rather than the rendered markdown on GitHub.

```suggestion
When using custom schedulers based on Kubernetes scheduling code, cluster administrators need to be careful with
plugins that use the following [extension points](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#extension-points), `queueSort`, `prefilter`, `filter`, or `permit`.
These extension points control various stages of the scheduling process, and the wrong configuration can impact the kube-scheduler's behavior in your cluster.

### Key considerations
```

> This section covers security hardening when using custom schedulers based on the Kubernetes
> scheduling code.
> The cluster administrator needs be careful with the plugins that use the `queueSort`, `prefilter`, `filter`, or permit [extension points](https://github.com/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#extension-points).
> Scheduling happens in a series of stages that are exposed through the extension points.
> As a cluster administrator, you can enable plugins that define their own extension points.
> Doing so can affect the defined scheduling behaviors of the kube-scheduler in your cluster.
> 
> When using a custom scheduler, plugin extension points such as `queueSort`, `prefilter`, `filter` and `permit` should be used with care.

Reviewer 5: Don't you think the sentence warning administrators about plugin extension points is repetitive?

I made the paragraph clear, as it feels confusing.

Also, the referenced URL is invalid, it raises a 404 error. I also changed it to the live webpage rather than the rendered markdown on GitHub.

```suggestion
When using custom schedulers based on the Kubernetes scheduling code, cluster administrators need to be careful with
plugins that use the following [extension points](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#extension-points), `queueSort`, `prefilter`, `filter`, or `permit`.
These extension points control various stages of a scheduling process, and the wrong configuration can impact the kube-scheduler's behavior in your cluster.

### Key considerations
```

---
title: "Hardening Guide - Scheduler Configuration"
description: >
    Information about how to make the Kubernetes scheduler more secure.
content_type: concept
weight: 90
---

<!-- overview -->
The Kubernetes {{< glossary_tooltip text="scheduler" term_id="kube-scheduler" >}} is
one of the critical components of the
{{< glossary_tooltip text="control plane" term_id="control-plane" >}}.

This document covers how to improve the security posture of the Schduler.

A misconfigured scheduler can have security implications. Such a scheduler can target specific nodes and evict the workloads or applications that are sharing the node and its resources. This can aid an attacker with a [Yo-Yo attack](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.00542): an attack on a vulnerable autoscaler.
<!-- body -->

> ## kube-scheduler configurations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## kube-scheduler configuration
```

> ### Scheduler Authentication & Authorization configuration options

Reviewer: Is this right:
```suggestion
### Scheduler authentication & authorization command line options
```
?

Author: Yes that makes more sense 👍

> {{<table caption="Authentication and Authorization Configurations">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<table caption="Security advice for kube-scheduler command line options relating to authentication or authorization" >}}
```

| Configuration                            | Security hardening advice                                                                                                           |
| ---------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `authentication-kubeconfig`              | Make sure to provide a proper kubeconfig so that the server calls are secure. This kubeconfig file should also maintained securely. |
| `authentication-tolerate-lookup-failure` | Set to `false` to make sure invalid authentication configurations do not lead to requests passing off as anonymous                  |
| `authentication-skip-lookup`             | This should be set to `false` to make sure all missing authentication configuration falls back to the authentication kubeconfig.    |
| `authorization-always-allow-paths`       | These paths should respond with data that is appropriate for anonymous authorization. Defaults to `/healthz,/readyz,/livez`.        |
{{</table>}}

> ### Address configuration options

Reviewer: Is this right:
```suggestion
### Scheduler networking command line options
```
?

> {{<table caption="Address Configurations">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<table caption="Security advice for kube-scheduler command line options relating to networking" >}}
```

> | Configuration            | Security hardening advice                                                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Parameter                | Security hardening advice                                                                                                                                                          |
```

| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `bind-address`           | In most cases, the kube-scheduler does not need to be externally accessible. Setting the bind address to `localhost` is a secure practice.                                         |

> | `permit-address-sharing` | Set this configuration to `false` to  disable connection sharing through `SO_REUSEADDR`. `SO_REUSEADDR` can lead to reuse of terminated connections that are in `TIME_WAIT` state. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `permit-address-sharing` | Set this to `false` to  disable connection sharing through `SO_REUSEADDR`. `SO_REUSEADDR` can lead to reuse of terminated connections that are in `TIME_WAIT` state. |
```

| `permit-port-sharing`    | Default `false`. Use the default unless you are confident you understand the security implications.                                                                                |
{{</table>}}

> ### TLS configuration options

Reviewer: Is this right:
```suggestion
### Scheduler TLS command line options
```
?

> {{<table caption="Address Configurations">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<table caption="Security advice for kube-scheduler command line options relating to encryption in transit" >}}
```

> | Configuration                  | Security hardening advice                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Parameter                      | Security hardening advice                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
```

| ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `requestheader-client-ca-file` | Generally do not depend on authorization being already done for incoming requests. Always provide the root certificate bundle. This allows authorization to happen on each incoming request through `requestheader-allowed-names`. |
| `tls-cipher-suites`            | Always provide a list of preferred cipher suites. This ensures encryption never happens with insecure cipher suites.                                                                                                               |
{{</table>}}

## Scheduling configurations for custom schedulers

> This section covers security hardening when using custom schedulers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section covers security hardening when using custom schedulers based on the Kubernetes
scheduling code.
```

Do we have any advice for securing a custom scheduler written in something else (eg: shell, Python)?

The cluster administrator needs be careful with the plugins that use the `queueSort`, `filter`, or permit [extension points](https://github.com/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#extension-points).
Scheduling happens in a series of stages that are exposed through the extension points.
As a cluster administrator, you can enable plugins that define their own extension points.
Doing so can affect the defined scheduling behaviors of the kube-scheduler in your cluster.

> When using a custom scheduler plugin extension points such as `queueSort`, `filter` and `permit` should be used with care.

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
When using a custom scheduler, plugin extension points such as `queueSort`, `filter` and `permit` should be used with care.
```

Exactly one plugin that uses the `queueSort` extension point can be enabled at a time. Any plugins that use `queueSort` should be scrutinized.

Plugins that implement the `filter` extension point can potentially mark all nodes as unschedulable. This can bring scheduling of new pods to a halt.

Plugins that implement the `permit` extension point  can prevent or delay the binding of a Pod. Such plugins should be thoroughly reviewed by the cluster administrator.

> When using a plugin that is not one of the [default plugins](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#scheduling-plugins), consider disabling the `queueSort`, `filter` and `permit` extension points as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using a plugin that is not one of the [default plugins](/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#scheduling-plugins), consider disabling the `queueSort`, `filter` and `permit` extension points as follows:
```

Author: Adding the `https://kubernetes.io` would always point to the main website when viewed on site preview or local runs. Would it better it always points to the version of the website that this viewed?

Reviewer: Using a site-relative URL is better. Imagine how this page will look when the base URL is https://v1-31.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/hardening-guide/scheduler/ and the current release has moved on to v1.33.2

Would you want people to switch versions without noticing, or would you want to send them to https://v1-31.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#scheduling-plugins ?

I'd definitely want the second option.

Author: So, I suggest adding refs using only the paths so Hugo can use the currently active host. So if you visit `https://v1.docs.kubernetes.io`, then you see the `/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#scheduling-plugins` from the active version, i.e., `v1.docs.kubernetes.io`.

Reviewer: To do that, commit the suggestion from https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/45080#discussion_r1597533285

Doing so can affect the defined scheduling behaviors of the kube-scheduler in your cluster.

When using a custom scheduler, plugin extension points such as `queueSort`, `filter` and `permit` should be used with care.

Exactly one plugin that uses the `queueSort` extension point can be enabled at a time. Any plugins that use `queueSort` should be scrutinized.

Plugins that implement the `filter` extension point can potentially mark all nodes as unschedulable. This can bring scheduling of new pods to a halt.

Plugins that implement the `permit` extension point  can prevent or delay the binding of a Pod. Such plugins should be thoroughly reviewed by the cluster administrator.

When using a plugin that is not one of the [default plugins](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#scheduling-plugins), consider disabling the `queueSort`, `filter` and `permit` extension points as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubescheduler.config.k8s.io/v1
kind: KubeSchedulerConfiguration
profiles:
  - schedulerName: default-scheduler
  - schedulerName: my-custom-scheduler
    plugins:
      queueSort:
        disabled:
        - name: '*'
      filter:
        disabled:

>         - name: '*'

Author: I think I misunderstood  when I added `filter.disabled[0].name: *`.
I'll update this config.

      permit:
        disabled:

>         - name: '*'

Reviewer 6: indented left for 2 spaces may read better:

```yaml
profiles:
- schedulerName: default-scheduler
- schedulerName: my-custom-scheduler
```

```
This creates two scheduler profiles: `default-scheduler` and ` my-custom-scheduler`.
Whenever the `.spec` of a Pod does not have a value for `.spec.schedulerName`,

> the kube-scheduler runs for that Pod, using its main configuration, and default plugin.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
the kube-scheduler runs for that Pod, using its main configuration, and default plugins.
```

If you define a Pod with `.spec.schedulerName` set to `my-custom-scheduler`, the
kube-scheduler also runs but with a custom configuration; in that custom configuration,
the  `queueSort`, `filter` and `permit` extension points are disabled.
If you use this kube-scheduler configuration, and don't run any custom scheduler, and
you then define a Pod with  `.spec.schedulerName` set to `nonexistent-scheduler` (or

> any other scheduler name that doesn't exist in your cluster), then the Pod stays pending scheduling. You would see a `FailedScheduling` event for the Pod and could manually

Reviewer 6: > You would see a `FailedScheduling` event for the Pod

This is not accurate. A pod specifies non-existent schedulerName would not see any event.

<!-- body -->
## kube-scheduler configuration

### Scheduler authentication & authorization command line options
{{<table caption="Security advice for kube-scheduler command line options relating to authentication or authorization" >}}
| Command line argument                    | Security hardening advice                                                                                                              |
| ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `authentication-kubeconfig`              | Make sure to provide a proper kubeconfig so that the server calls are secure. This kubeconfig file should also be maintained securely. |
| `authentication-tolerate-lookup-failure` | Set to `false` to make sure invalid authentication configurations do not lead to requests passing off as anonymous                     |
| `authentication-skip-lookup`             | This should be set to `false` to make sure all missing authentication configuration falls back to the authentication kubeconfig.       |

> | `authorization-always-allow-paths`       | These paths should respond with data that is appropriate for anonymous authorization. Defaults to `/healthz,/readyz,/livez`.           |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `authorization-always-allow-paths`       | These paths should respond with data that is appropriate for anonymous authorization. Defaults to `/healthz,/readyz,/livez`.           |
|`profiling`  | Set to `false` to disable the profiling endpoints which are provide debugging information but which should not be enabled on production clusters as they present a risk of denial of service or information leakage |
```

| `permit-address-sharing` | Set this to `false` to  disable connection sharing through `SO_REUSEADDR`. `SO_REUSEADDR` can lead to reuse of terminated connections that are in `TIME_WAIT` state. |
| `permit-port-sharing`    | Default `false`. Use the default unless you are confident you understand the security implications.                                                                  |
{{</table>}}

### Scheduler TLS command line options
{{<table caption="Security advice for kube-scheduler command line options relating to encryption in transit" >}}
| Command line argument          | Security hardening advice                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `requestheader-client-ca-file` | Generally do not depend on authorization being already done for incoming requests. Always provide the root certificate bundle. This allows authorization to happen on each incoming request through `requestheader-allowed-names`. |

Reviewer 4: I think setting this without setting all the other requestheader* configuration options may actually be very dangerous. I've started a thread with you on slack.

/hold

---

> title: "Hardening Guide - Scheduler Configuration"

Reviewer 7: My impression at first glance over the title is that this page belongs to the "references" section rather than the "concepts" section.

Author: Will sync with sig-security-docs to see if we should move this to references. If there is an agreement, we will move the hardening guides in a separate PR.

Author: https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-security/issues/30#issuecomment-2365336664

Reviewer: Conversation isn't resolved yet, so I've unresolved it.

Reviewer: That said, I don't see guides as reference material. Common practice such as is recommended in https://docsfordevelopers.com/ calls for thinking of these as separate kinds of documentation.

Author: Should we considering moving hardening guides to a different place outside of concepts and references?

Reviewer: I think that's a different issue / discussion. Would you like to open it, @AnshumanTripathi ?

Author: @sftim created https://github.com/kubernetes/website/issues/48069

Reviewer 5: Looks great, I believe you can move the page to the best-practices folder now.

Author: @network-charles that would separate this hardening guide from the existing guide. I'm unsure if I should merge this first and then move the two guides together or integrate this into best practices and then move the existing guide there. 

I'm also interested in listening to the sig-security group to see if there is a consensus that hardening guides should go to the best practices section. 

Once I have a bit more clarity on this, I can take action.

Reviewer 4: I would rather we merge this into the current "concepts" location, for consistency, and then follow up with a PR to move the entire hardening guide into "best practices".

Sig-docs folks, is that plan OK with y'all?

Reviewer: Suits me @tabbysable

Author: Sounds good. Marking this comment as resolved for now. I will create a follow up PR to move hardening guides to best practices.

description: >
    Information about how to make the Kubernetes scheduler more secure.
content_type: concept
weight: 90
---

<!-- overview -->
The Kubernetes {{< glossary_tooltip text="scheduler" term_id="kube-scheduler" >}} is
one of the critical components of the
{{< glossary_tooltip text="control plane" term_id="control-plane" >}}.

This document covers how to improve the security posture of the Scheduler.

> A misconfigured scheduler can have security implications. Such a scheduler can target specific nodes and evict the workloads or applications that are sharing the node and its resources. This can aid an attacker with a [Yo-Yo attack](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.00542): an attack on a vulnerable autoscaler.

Reviewer 7: Please wrap these long lines as you did for some other paragraphs.

| `authentication-skip-lookup`             | Set this to `false` to make sure the scheduler _always_ looks up its authentication configuration from the API server.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `authorization-always-allow-paths`       | These paths should respond with data that is appropriate for anonymous authorization. Defaults to `/healthz,/readyz,/livez`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

> | `profiling`                              | Set to `false` to disable the profiling endpoints which are provide debugging information but which should not be enabled on production clusters as they present a risk of denial of service or information leakage. The `--profiling` argument is deprecated and can now be provided through the [KubeScheduler DebuggingConfiguration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/config-api/kube-scheduler-config.v1/#DebuggingConfiguration). Profiling can be disabled through the kube-scheduler config by setting `enableProfiling` to `false`. |

Reviewer 7: Markdown tables are awkward for maintenance.
Shall we try bullets instead?

scheduling code.
The cluster administrator needs be careful with the plugins that use the `queueSort`, `prefilter`, `filter`, or permit [extension points](https://github.com/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#extension-points).
Scheduling happens in a series of stages that are exposed through the extension points.
As a cluster administrator, you can enable plugins that define their own extension points.
Doing so can affect the defined scheduling behaviors of the kube-scheduler in your cluster.

When using a custom scheduler, plugin extension points such as `queueSort`, `prefilter`, `filter` and `permit` should be used with care.

Exactly one plugin that uses the `queueSort` extension point can be enabled at a time. Any plugins that use `queueSort` should be scrutinized.

Plugins that implement the `prefilter` or `filter` extension point can potentially mark all nodes as unschedulable. This can bring scheduling of new pods to a halt.

Plugins that implement the `permit` extension point  can prevent or delay the binding of a Pod. Such plugins should be thoroughly reviewed by the cluster administrator.

> 

Reviewer 7: Sounds to me that these are bullets that follow the paragraph on line 57.
